The next question from Ms. Huong is:
My uncle is a war
hero who died in the war in
1979. My family doesn't know
where his grave is. We've been searching for many years
without success. We've
consulted many spiritual healers and spent a lot of money
dealing with local authorities, but the
result is still the same. My uncle's wife and children still
hope to find his grave one day.
I find this very difficult and
don't know how to resolve it. It's
true that everyone wants to find the
grave of their loved one; that's a heartfelt desire.
But if we understand
Buddhism, we can
address it spiritually. If the deceased are buried
there, we can build according to
our folk customs and traditions.
As for those who have passed away,
we can focus on the spiritual aspect. If we are like that, then the vengeful spirits will
follow us for countless lifetimes.
There are no graves here, yet they follow
us like a shadow. That's what Buddhist
scriptures teach: there are vengeful ghosts following us.  Even King
Binh, who lived several globes away, could
still be followed. That's the spiritual aspect that can be
followed. Then there are
those possessed by spirits; they don't bring the entire tomb
into the person.
They possess the spiritual aspect, not the
physical body. So, if your family has
filial piety towards your grandparents, parents, and ancestors,
actually, you don't need any prayers to
follow them, dear fellow practitioners. It
follows the karmic cycle of love and destiny; people
follow each other unless they are condemned
to hell, reborn as animals, or ascend to heaven.
But in reality, those who ascend
to heaven still follow those below.
Because from above, one can see down to the lower realms, and then the self
sees oneself. Only in the human realm is it so
dense and heavy that it's difficult to see. Only
some people can see and know
spirits, and saints
see them more often.
We see less, but
spirits see us through karma. Then in
heaven, through
merit, they see us, and so
we and our ancestors can see each other.  If you
have a karmic connection with someone in your family,
that spirit will follow you like a
shadow. Whenever you start a new venture, that
person will follow you immediately.
So, if your family is like this, it's
best to hold a memorial service for the spirit of the deceased soldier. Therefore, the
family should go to the
temple to chant prayers and perform a memorial service for the deceased.
Oh
[music]